hey it's me Destin we're at an air show
so today I'm going to teach you about
vortex shedding
on our airplane
hi sir I can't hear you what does the
smoke come out of the airplane makes
perfect sense so on a wing you know in
layman's terms the Bernoulli principle
where flow is high pressure is low got
it four blows high pressures low so the
air has to travel farther over the top
of the wing then on the bottom so it's
flowing faster so you have low pressure
on top and high pressure on the bottom
so high pressure pushes the airplane up
that's why your airplane flies but
something you didn't know the edge here
if you look at this you've got high
pressure and low pressure and they try
to have a discontinuity here so what
happens is that high pressure tries to
run around the top of the aircraft and
you get what's called a vortex or vortex
shedding calculate the vorticity on that
so let's go to the other axis okay so
now we're looking at the tip of the wing
so again you have low pressure on top
high pressure on bottom so that high
pressure runs around the flow runs
around and tries to roll over so that
they can feed because nature abhors a
vacuum it doesn't like a discontinuity
so what happens as it rolls get a vortex
in this duration here
okay you can see on this wing what
they've got on the end it's kicked up
just a little bit so you've got the high
pressure here you have the low pressure
here but it's also swept if you come
around at this angle look you can see
that swept and the whole idea is to
control the Board of sees the jet off
the end of the vehicle so that's it you
reduced drag by getting that off of the
vehicle and getting it out of away from
can you say hello it's me and my buddy
and we're on a kayak and we are
overlooking a hot-air balloon festival
okay vortex shedding does not only
happen with airplane wings it also
happens with things like paddles if you
have a low pressure and a high pressure
side on the paddle you get the
discontinuity right on the edge I'm
really ruining my canoe trip with my
buddies good anyway
give or take shedding and a
discontinuity on the side so watch when
you watch the paddle here you'll see a
vortex all right on the edge you'll
notice it happens where it's rolling
from the high pressure side to the low
pressure side
I'm going to show you example of what
life is like without asking science
questions of yourself all the time
so Jacob my friend why do you say that
the there's a vortex on the edge of the
wing on a fighter jet now you got a look
at the camera because Tom Cruise was
cool and Top Gun when he was the
Maverick that before we're crazy because
Luke it has been noted if you don't ask
scientific questions of yourself you'll
go through life thinking Tom Cruise is
too cool what's this called vortex
shedding how did you know that because I
have smart friends whatever I know a
rocket scientist eighteen warthogs
where it's at